# Codename Calamity**Introduction**Codename: Calamity is a high concept, deeply complex journey through actions, conseequences and inevitability. It has a heavy focus on environmental catastrophe, the limited time available for a species to adapt to those sorts of changes, and the inability to change the past. The game is a party based RPG that takes place over multiple time periods. Time periods are unlocked when required by solving problems for citizens on your quest to save the Universe from calamity. To do so, you use DAMUS, a time travel machine designed by former and disgraced chief Odyssian scientist Gamma. The machine requires a codex to determine meta data relating to points of time and interest for specific events and then Chronalysis, crystals from the right region that date to the right time to travel. This requires endeavours to certain areas that DAMUS will identify when presented with the correct Codex. Codex can be combined and the knowledge expanded upon by subsequent Codex or Codex updates from Uplink terminals.I'll expand here later but expanding too much gives the game away, so to speak, so this is how the repo is laid out. Everything here is extremely rough and a work in progress.**Codex List**Codex can be encoded by anybody with access to the DAMUS library. Several are deceptive, many are subjective. They are attributed to authors but the authorship comes in to question with some. Gamma wrote many of the ones relating directly to the mission at hand and for moments he tries to direct. Some have been doctored and their originals are recovered through Uplinks.*Part I*- Codex 227: Odyssey castle building - Written by Odyssey Travel- Codex 387: Science team and basic knowledge on resistance - Written by Odyssey Department of Defense- Codex 3: Basic knowledge on project DAMUS - Written by Gamma, Tauran*Part II*-*Part III*-*Part IV*- Codex 112: Reptilian tribe disintegration- Codex 104: Odyssian invasion- Codex 103: Before Odyssey- Codex 107: Human colonisation- Codex 108: Resource exhaustion and civil war- Codex 110: Calamity investigation and solutions*Part V*- Human colonisation- Treaty with reptilians and trading of oil- End of the Earth- Transformation of Mars- King and Queen Summers - Assassination of Queen Summers by forces loyal to Queen Winters- Calamity investigation and solutions*Part VI*- The rise of King Alpha- *Part VII**Part VIII**Part IX*- The end of the world- The decision, arrogance, Emily and pain- *Part X***Layout***Maps*In Visio and in .PDF formats. The file names indicate where they slot in within the width of the entire game and the file 0. Odyssey represents that map. Like many games of its type, the game goes from left to right literally with respect to progress between parts/chapters and up/down/all around within each chapter. The advent of time travel mechanics means that the maps will look different between time periods. These aren't drawn yet.*Script*I'm using a few tools. I use Final Draft because it gives me a whole heap of features I know I will find useful like character beats, scene summaries and colour charting. It will be what the final game is completely written in. It is called and will always be called 'Codename Calamity.fdx'For drafting pure writing I am using FocusWriter and then I'm dumping each part of that file in to markdown files per part. The overall file for this writing will always be called 'Codename Calamity.odt' and each part will be named 'Part {Number in Roman Numerals} - {Part Name}.md'Lastly, those mark down files are there to easily read and skim on GitHub, where this project will be hosted*Sprites*Will eventually include all of these game assets.*Rooms*This is a set of game assets and markdown files for every room in the game, split in to subfolders per part.*Characters*A markdown file for each character. This is the character bible, complete with the species, age, gender, living status, profession, relationships, traits, allies, rivals, sins, virtues and personality. Beats are included where integral and linked back by reference to the events that lead to them.