# Part V - The Winter of our DiscontentIn this part we discover that Queen Winters is evil, overtook the Kingdom from the well meaning but foolish King Summers after King Summers was assassinated by forces loyal to the now Queen of the human colonies on Odyssey.## ENTER HUMAN KINGDOM ILLEGALLY ACROSS BORDERThe Kingdom requires an entry Visa and passport that you are not in possession of. You are escorted by Rosalina, an ex-citizen who was banished never allowed to come back. She still has friends who can get you across over the border wall in return for all that you have done for the Reptilians## IN THE TOWN{Meet the townsfolk who are complaining of hunger and a lack of care of citizens from the crown ever since the coronation, taxes have increased and crime is on the rise}{Find out that the townsfolk know about the calamity but plan to do what they always do, find another planet to dwell on once this one has expired}{Find out about the Queen briefly and about the former Queen. Pick up bits and pieces of this narrative, especially from the urchins, some of which are putting on a play showing the assassination}{You need to travel to the castle before you can get through to the old Odyssey capital in the first place as a large sum of money has been applied as a toll for anyone who wishes to pass (bear in mind that at this location, there’s not a lot past there. Odyssey is a small planet and the old capital is quite worse for wear) and since you need to go there, you venture towards the castle}## GUARDS{You meet the guards, Tom, Dick and Harry, all moronic sons of Queen Winters and all cruel and barbaric to citizens and to small animals}{You are seized on your way through the border and the royal guard immediately recognise Rosalina and you are brought to a holding cell within the royal castle to be brought before the King and Queen themselves}## MEET KING AND QUEENYou are brought before King Summers and Queen Winters. The Queen asks Rosalina if she remembers what her punishment had been and why she would ever dare return. Her punishment for returning was always to be most severe: death. You are returned to your cells## BROUGHT BACK TO CELLSThe guards bring all three of you back to your cells but this time Rosalina in to her own cell. Eventually you are informed by the guards that you are free to leave but must cross back to the Reptilian empire after you have finished in the main town of the Human Empire## ACCESSING THE SECOND TIME COREBefore Rosalina is left behind she gives you a name, Talon Alderson to track down to get you access to the second core to fix the mess that has happened to the empire. You explore town looking for the man and eventually find a woman who says she can help you. She brings you to Talon.## MEETING TALON ALDERSONYou are brought to a shack a little out of town and immediately have a gun pointed at both of you by an older, unruly looking man. He suggests that a high ransom might be paid for you before you finally blurt out Rosalina’s name. He puts the gun down, he knows both Rosalina and Isabella. He is Rosalina’s father.He says he can give you the time core but he needs you to do something for him first, to prove that you are trustworthy. There is a small troop of Royal Guard in the forest and he needs you to go out and kill them since he would be a wanted man if he did so himself, so he needs you to do it for him.## KILLING GUARDS IN THE FOREST(Choices) Here you can either kill the guards or you can threaten their lives and demand that they flee immediately and far away from the location so that Talon believes you dumped their bodies.## A FUGITIVEEither way, at this stage the Kingdom realizes you are still in town as they go out and look for their missing men, (Choices) you can either protect Talon here and confess to being involved in their disappearance alone or pin it on him and all three of you are arrested. ## BACK TO JAILYou are brought back in front of the King and Queen who demand on the spot that either the two or three of you be executed. You are placed in the cell next to Rosalina## ACCESSING THE THIRD TIME COREYou are brought to the cell next to Rosalina. You can escape from it but she cannot. Other than the fact you don’t have the third core yet or the piece required for Damus, you also want to save Rosalina and prevent the chaos in the empire knowing that her mother is dead thanks to the Queen as is the previous Queen, so when you find the means to escape rather than make a run for the border you fight your way through the prison until you kill the main warden to get the final piece of time core.You get back just in time to see Rosalina assassinated by one of the royal guards, and although you kill him you’re too late. She tells you this is the location she believes most likely and strongly will link to Damus is the cell in which she is dying as that is where her mother died. She dies and you activate Damus which does indeed link to this cell.  She whispers the words “Cease the day” in her dying breaths.## BACK IN TIME IN CELLWhen you arrive back in time you arrive in an empty cell which is open and nobody else in the prison. At this stage the empire is a relatively peaceful place. You sneak out back in to town.## SCENES BEFORE TO BE ADDED## GETTING ACCESS TO THE RESISTANCE MOVEMENTPrincess Winters coup group are situated at an abandoned office in town. You knock on the door of this office and you are asked for a password. Rosalina’s final words are the correct password and you are permitted entry.## PROVING THAT YOU ARE A REAL ENEMY OF THE CROWN(Choices) You are ordered to kill a guard. If you don’t do so, Isabella will do it for you and take responsibility for you, but now you are on her head. You can also kill him and prove your loyalty.You learn that the reason that Isabella joined the resistance movement was the fact that humans came to her planet and destroyed her land with the permission of the Odyssians including killing her own parents. This is somewhat of a mission of revenge but additionally Princess Winters has promised to be a leader for all, including the reptilians, if they join her cause.The King is lazy and stupid and is having an affair with Princess Winters. She has managed to convince the members of her group that the much loved Queen Summers hates them and only cares about the wealthy humans despite her causes at times for the Reptiles.## LEARN WINTERS PLANHer plan is to have the Queen assassinated and pin it on Isabella. You need to record that conversation, find out the true culprit and prove that he is trying to kill Summers. The culprit turns out to be the Prince and leader of Military, Prince Gallant and you arrive just in time to play the tape over the loudspeaker.On hearing the tape Isabella is stunned and realises the error of her ways and pushes the Queen out of the way of Stephen Gallant’s arrow only to be hit herself and to die. At this stage the military is sent along with you to bring the Princess to justice## FIND THE PRINCESS(Choices) You will be in the lead when you find her and your options will be to kill her or to bring her to justice in front of the guard to be tried## BACK IN THE PRESENTYou travel with Damus to the present, back to the cell which is now, along with all the others around it, empty. You meet the now King and Queen Summers who thank you for all that you did in exposing the plot of the assassins and they thank you by supplying you with part of the Damus primary core.## Winter Heights Stadium## Winter Castle - Ground Floor## Winter Castle - Basement## Winter Castle - Throne-room# Winter Castle - Throne-room, prevent the assassination of Queen Summers, lock up Queen WInters## Winter Condos# Winter Condos - Prevent Queen Winters from meeting the King by killing her## Winter Farm