# Part IV - A New Hope# Odyssey RdThe Reptilians who came across you were skeptical of your story, but everybody knows you. They are of the belief that you can save them and so they free you from the Resistance and bring you back to their base. The two that collect you are Fauval, the personal assistant and right hand woman of Fauval (the leader of the tribe, and original leader of the joint tribes) and his friend (unnamed for now).They explain through dialogue exposition as to why they are helping you but they are still skeptical and nervous.“Where are you taking me now? This is starting to become insane, I know none of you and what your issues are with me and I demand some answers. Three times now I’ve changed hands to become a prisoner.”“Please, you are not our prisoner. You are in chains because they placed you in to them and we have not the tools or expertise to free you of them right now. When we get back to the camp, we’ll get you out of those. We’re here to free you, not to capture. That maybe you might help.”# Hope Rd“Well... that’s yet to be seen, either your freeing me or your helping me. But even if you are honest I don’t see how I am going to be much help to you or anyone, I have a very specific goal and it is very important...”“We know, ironic that you are a prisoner of people that wish to solve the same problems you wish to solve. We wish you all the luck in the world, but saving it? You and your Odyssian chums have made that perfectly impossible now. And we will let you get back to it, hell, if you can’t help us or you aren’t willing, you can go free. But we are here to free you and it seems reasonable that you at least hear us out.”# Tribe CampYou arrive at the camp with the leaders each sitting at their respective stones and Fauval in the centre stone. Eight leaders surround Fauval, four on each side, all old and wise. Fauval motions you towards the stone in the centre of the camp area.“Long time no see, my dear old friend. Let Lenny here help you with your restraints... you could at least pretend to be happy to see me.”“Forgive me, this isn’t the first time today but... I have no idea who you are, who anybody here is. I don’t remember a damn thing and so you can imagine the frustration I’m feeling right now given there is one extremely important thing I need to do...”“I know, I know “Fauval, I love you buddy, but me and Disco are off to save the world.”, and how’s that going for you? In chains and restrained by a group that kind of stole your shtick... no memory huh? Yep, sure sounds like Disco. Old habits, hey?”“Obviously, everything you just said sounds meaningless to me but... guess I still got my feelings, emotions. I believe you.”Lenny cuts your restraints off as promised and as he touches you gently on the shoulder with a smile you feel the connection and smile back.“Alright, but what can I do for you? I have no memories, I don’t know you or your tribe here or your friends or your predicament and I’m guessing the short and sweet version is likely to lack the nuance necessary for me to solve all your issues.”“Hey, if you can save the whole wide world, this little patch should be a cakewalk. And if you think about it, starting small, this is one part of the world. Where are you headed anyway?”You look back at the most recent correspondence with Gamma again, the note that he left you during your escape explains that you must head to New New London Castle and speak to the King.“New New London... funnily enough, I feel like that’s home.”“Indeed it is buddy. And if you could remember correctly, a home you abandoned, barely surviving with the ferry out indefinitely and Destry’s army kinda sorta ready to slaughter you in seconds and without even a credit’s worth of bounty. Betraying them like that... it was awesome buddy, I owe you big time. And I’ll owe you even bigger time because here’s the thing. That castle, there’s only one way out, and as far as segways go one won’t get you there. The bridge is patrolled constantly.”“And that’s your problem? What’s on the other side?”“Peace, brother. Resource sharing, no more bloodshed, the things that you told me once you would fix for me, you promised me. But I am peaceful. You want to turn around, try your luck melting a decade’s worth of ice in the ferry tunnel, head back to Odyssey, fine by me.”The council murmur to themselves, some mentioning that you should be held to your promise by force, a rabble arousing. Fauval shouts for them to cool it“I mean it. That’s who I am P, always have been, always will be. You know that, deep down, no matter what Disco bikkies G got you on that’s tripping your memory balls, I know you and you know me, and this is it. This matters. And you care.”He is right, you feel it again and immediately begin to consider the situation. Here is where you need information to start really feeding DAMUS“We need to go to the park, I can explain from there. Elders, tribe, remain. Just P and me, like old times buddy.”Fauval starts to follow“Just P and me. I know your eager to help, but trust me on this one. I think I know what’s going on here.”You follow and walk back down the road towards the park.# Hope Rd“That machine, the one that you have with you right now. I know nobody can know about it, I trust you guys. I really, really do. I know G was funny about it, that he didn’t want you messing with it but here’s the thing. He told me that by the time you got back here, despite everything we’d talked about, despite you telling me you’d save us only to have him talk you out of it... that if I agreed, if I let it go, you’d come back and save us. I couldn’t tell you then, he couldn’t tell you then. But you gotta trust me buddy. He told me to tell you this. That photo you have in your pocket, turn it over. See on the back, that little paw print... it’s mine buddy,”You look at Fauval incredulously but you believe him. You don't know how you will do it, but you believe you can help him. "Tell me what I can do. What we can do with the machine. What is the problem and... well, when is it?... do you have one of these Codex thingies?""No, but I can tell you where to find them. I know you guys are protective of this machine and the discs you made for them. I remember helping G and even his rival make some of them and we got copies, but I've hidden some, others have been stolen. But I can guide you on the right path.""OK... lead the way, we can collect them, I'll help you, then you'll help me.""I knew I could count on you buddy. We start at the park, I've got one hidden there. Let's just hope Destry's troops aren't already on their way, they search for this crap too."Fauval joins your party.# Hope Park Ave"I have a bad feeling P, the park... there's been reports of an oncoming assault from elements in the tribe in communication with the other tribe. They do this sometimes but recently it's worse than ever. Bloodshed for absolutely no good reason, I hate it but... I understand. They're hungry, they're frustrated. We have more here but they know as well as I do, it's not enough... the world doesn't have enough, it kills me P, kills me.""The paw... what does it mean.""It means peace brother. You were here, once before, for something big. Something I couldn't do alone and you and G, you helped me then. I don't know how you did it, all I know is I sensed something, like something had changed and I knew it was that machine, I knew you were breaking the rules for me... bending them, and I know how big that was for you. That is the Peace Paw, it's been with this tribe since the beginning but it was never befitting someone like you. It took a lot of convincing for you to take it but I guess that ego comes out when your whistle is wet, hey P." he smiles... "Alright, we're here."# Hope ParkYou arrive at the park, a lot of opposition troops are forming there already. You overhear a conversation:"We need the disk, as leverage. It's Fauval's biggest weakness, he talks about it all the time. We have three, they have three. If we can just get this one more, we could have control over this land and get what rightfully belongs to us. Spread out, take your positions and follow your leader."Fauval speaks softly but intensely:"I know where it is, the codex... follow me, this might be dangerous but I know you can handle yourself. You impressed me against those Resistance guards, seems losing your memory hasn't jostled your fighting spirit.""These guys look serious, I don't know if I have the strength... but I trust you, still. Lead the way, friend.""You're the best P. We'll get through this, just remember, all we want is peace again in our land. Maybe we don't have enough for everybody but war, violence... they're not the answer.""Guess we can put this down to defense."Travelling through the park your main encounters are with opposition village forces. Along the way you can collect Codex pieces for the Codex you already possess. The only primary Codex on this path ends with the war chief of Destry's tribe. They come across the Codex and collect it, and start scrambling out. You need to defeat his two primary groups of soldiers before you encounter him directly. "This won't end well, for you or your tribe. Understand that you left us with no option, we were starving and dying and we still are. We have ideas, we are going to march on the capital and demand the resources we need to survive. For Destry, and for New Hope!"Fauval tries to talk reason"Those resources are limited across the whole world. You think the Resistance are crazy, they believe the exact same thing as you do. On a global level. If there was a chance to get our share and survive, that time has passed.""And who was it that waited so long to do what was needed. The world isn't ending today and Destry is willing to do what you won't. I'm sorry it has come to this, but move out of my way or I'll move you by force.""Then, this is for the future. I'm sorry buddy. P, let's do this."When you defeat the tribal leader you get the Codex and add it to DAMUS."We need to get to the hall, I have the other disks there but I have a bad feeling about this, the soldiers must have got across the water somehow and I doubt that's the last of them."# Hope Park AveYou encounter more troops along the way and can smell fire stronger than it should be coming from the direction of the camp and hall."God damn it, we need to move quickly. I think they're already there."# Hope RdAfter fighting off the forces, you can see the camp is desecrated and that troops are moving in on the hall. The elders are moving towards the hall"Get away from us you monsters! We're not the enemy, don't you dare move a step closer. This is sacrilege!"The troops rush the elders who flee in to the hall. Meanwhile, Wiery approaches you with stealth"I'm sorry my liege, they descended upon us too quickly. We tried to hold our ground but it was too much. But they didn't find this."Wiery hands the second Codex to you, and Fauval smiles at him and pats him on the shoulder. "Thank you brother, I know you and the troops would have fought with all you have. Now we need to get inside that hall and do whatever it takes to protect the last disk."# Tribe HallYou move in through the secret entrance on the side of the hall since the front entrance has been sealed shut. Many forces are around this area that need to be fought off before entering the hall. When you reach the side entrance, Fauval enters a code on a touchpad and requests you insert the paw in to the reader when the slot appears. This opens the secret entrance underneath the hall.You need to work your way up each level, encountering enemies along the way"Alright men, we're looking for documents, we're looking for fragments and more than anything, a Codex. From what we understand there are still two missing. And if we can find Fauval and avenge the death of our leader, we know he has one."The men scramble and you move up to the next level, but quickly encounter a group"Fauval... you bastard, hand over the disk and we might spare your life, if you're lucky.""I can't do that. I'll die to protect peace within my tribe.""Then die."# Reptilian River - Prevent the destruction of the bridge, ceasefire, starvationYou arrive at the river, troops moving in towards you. You activate the Codex and travel back to before the bridge was destroyed. You can now travel back towards the main Hope camp or to New Hope.## New Hope Hostel - Can stay to recover health, discuss civil war with NPCs## New Hope Camp - Meet Destry, find out about plans for destroying the bridge to gain proper independenceAs you walk in to the camp you hear mutterings"Tonight, we take the bridge, we take our independence and we never deal with their lot again.""For the tribe. We have all that we need and will ever need, we do not need to be with the heartless fools across the river ever again. To Destry! Long may he reign!""To Destry!"You can converse here regarding several points relevant to the insurrection and the plans, eventually you ask and are permitted to meet Destry after you meet the Elders## New Hope Elders Circle - Discuss clemency, peaceful solutions, a way of progressing without destroying the bridge"There is nothing that "## New Hope Mountain - Discover resources to share, requires Hope technology"DAMUS tells us plainly, this mountain could have fed a thousand men if only for the technology of Hope decades earlier than the time of the Calamity. Working together, the lives that could be saved. We must go to Hope, petition their ministers. To prove this to Destry, we could save the bridge and bring peace."## Hope Camp - Speak to Ministers and Gurus about technology sharing to bring peace to the tribes## Hope Park - Gather required party members for expedition to valley## Hope Valley - Gather materials required for cultivation and gathering of resources from New Hope Mountain## New Hope Camp - Return with the technology and the scientists, arrange ceasefire and treatise ## New Hope Mountain - Begin the resource gathering, complete change of timeline## Reptilian River - Move Forward In Time, Bridge Not Destroyed# Hope Tower - Prevent the civil war## Hope Valley## Hope Camp## Hope River# Hope Park - 