# Part I - Odyssey# AirlockAt the beginning, you are without memories. You know you are a human, vaguely, but none of your surrounding is familiar. You feel completely refreshed, yet you don't know why. You have in your pocket three items:- a disk, a photograph of you standing next to a woman you do not recognise and a fountain pen with the initials G.W. engraved.Your surroundings are cold and mechanical and somewhat drab and dreary, not to mention restricted. There is a doorway behind you and in front of you, both are sealed shut with large, metal doors without handles or wheels to spin (like a traditional airlock). This room is fully automated and over it you possess no control.Standing in front of you is an old, grand looking man with a long grey beard. He looks weary, but determined, and holds in his hands a device that possesses a small screen with a detachable band to strap to your wrist. It's too big to be a regular wrist watch and the machine is making sounds.The man speaks to you, insisting that he does not have time to explain how and why this is the case but that I must continue onwards without him as he is about to die and it is up to me to save the world from impending doom - the end of time.>PROTAGONIST>>... where am I? >GAMMA>> We do not have time for that right now. In fact, I have very little time indeed> PROTAGONIST>> Who are you? What is this place? I can’t remember a damn thing!> GAMMA>> Time... did you hear me? It’s running out. There is no such luxury as endless time, empires have fallen never learning better> PROTAGONIST>> Don’t have time to tell me who are where we are right now but plenty of time to wax poetic about philosophical bullshit! I know that I know you... don’t I know you? I know this feeling and I hate it by now> GAMMA>> In the next five minutes I will die. There is no way around that fact. Cryonics, the fountain of youth... ask Dorian Grey, there is no escaping time... and there is no escaping death> PROTAGONIST>> How could you possibly know that you are about to die? You seem perfectly healthy to me, you’re not hooked up to any machines. Were you poisoned? Do you intend to suicide, old man?> GAMMA>> For the same reason that I know the Universe that you love and hold so dear will follow, close behind me...> PROTAGONIST>> That’s nonsense... <<you have a strange, foreboding sense but you push it to the side>>... You are healthy, you cannot possibly know about the end of the universe or your death or any of this nonsense. Where are we and how long do you intend to leave me here.> GAMMA>> Listen, we don’t have time for this. I will tell you what you have to do. This machine on the ground, it’s called Damus. It’s the tool that will ultimately save the universe but I need you to be brave and walk forward without it, after I’m gone.> PROTAGONIST>> Fine, I’ll play. Walk forward to where?> GAMMA>> To the end of the universe of course...<<you flinch this time but shake it off with a laugh. Hahaha.>>... You can’t take Damus but you can take the mobile unit. It will let you back, when you finally get there, you will move backwards through time and come right back here> PROTAGONIST>> ... what’s the mobile unit? How do I travel backwards through time and what do I do when I arrive?> GAMMA>> The mobile unit, on the floor here, strap it to your wrist and walk beyond the door. It’s that simple. And unfortunately moving backwards through time is just another form of the same linear line. You will need to prepare along your way to ensure your safe return passage...> PROTAGONIST>> Alright, say I do all that. When I get here, I mosey over your dead body and then what the hell do I do? This is as far back as I can even remember> GAMMA>> You will, I’m sorry to say, have to watch me die all over again. Only then, and at this point, will you get control of Damus. For real. Once you do you will have control all over again. Time will feel like it’s flowing, to you and to everyone, but you will be paused in the same static moment right before the calamity.> PROTAGONIST>> Calamity... that’s what we’re calling it. OK, well this has been fun and all but enough with the game. Let me out of here, tell me where the hell I am because I am not playingAt this stage, Gamma collapses to the floor. Although you don’t know him you can’t help but rush over to him. When you arrive you put your hand on his wrist and neck but there is only a faint pulse. He looks extremely weary> GAMMA>> One day, you will know how sorry I am. This moment, it’s the beginning of the end. But in so many ways, it’s the end of a glorious beginning. One that you will usher in. Proud and ashamed, pride and shame...Gamma passes away and you freak out, start trying to perform CPR>PROTAGONIST>> Don’t die on me you old kook, I don’t know what is happening> GAMMA>> Pride. And shame.*You can get some dialogue options at this point, however, any questions you ask him with regards to who you are or who he is are glossed over but he introduces himself as Gamma and insists that I am the only person capable of stopping the calamity.**He states that after he dies I need to continue on past the airlock but I will not be able to bring the machine with me when I do. I will have to travel forwards, reach the end of time and then move backwards using the mobile unit.**Gamma passes away. There is nothing you can do. You sit listlessly as the airlock door in front of you opens. You consider your options but stay with the old man until a voice beckons*> OVERHEAD-AUDIO>> Five minutes until airlock decompression, please leave the airlock to avoid asphyxiation.(If you were to ignore this warning, nothing happens, but you do need to keep moving. Before you move you must collect the portable unit)You pick up the portable unit> PROTAGONIST>> Here goes... Who knows?As you walk past the main unit, it has something flashing on the screen.> DAMUS>> The time is now, you must continueAnd you leave the room*On my way I will need to create a path that will allow me back to the airlock, back to the machine, at which point you need to activate it and you will be able to set time in motion again in a linear direction, but only to the present time. The rest will fall in to place.**This scene is an introductory scene, is vague intentionally and plays strongly in to the time travel mechanics of the game that provide the revelatory exposition. The mechanic is built somewhat similarly to Memento but that would be a major simplification.**Just for the purposes of tonal direction and the way I have pictured this in my head along with its many influences along the way, the game is strongly character driven, characters are complex, sometimes duplicitous, but this is a game without good and bad guys, with complex individuals and leans heavily in to other high concept narrative, particularly TV (I'll be giving a special thanks credit to JJ Abrams at the end of the game):-*- Leans in to Fringe, Gamma is a lot like Walter Bishop. This is the game's biggest reveal, but of course this game running backwards means that the introduction is something you learn at the end. In this case, the reason you are here is that Gamma caused the end of time by trying to save his ex-fiancee, even though they will never be together. He broke the rules (also will play in to the mechanic) by doing this directly and destroyed the universe. I bring it up here as it will affect the way Gamma speaks and behaves. He has issues and is not very personable but there is some dread and regret in his tone and the way he acts and speaks- Leans in to Person of Interest, having insight using the machine allows Gamma to know all this, allows both of you to change the outcome of things. This has risks, naturally, but the machine was at least partly built that way. It impacts the effects of things that happened in the past so that you can travel back and change them- Leans in to Lost and its fifth dimensional time travel mechanics and rules. Constants are also immovable and necessary in this universe, variables are the things that are determined by the machine as able to change, but once you've changed something you can't undo it as you move in a linear fashion. It doesn't come up as obvious just yet but stating it at the first scene makes it easier to understand in future scenes as you slowly come to terms with this reality- That means the only exception to the rules about changing the past aren't you, the constants, who were always there, but the variables that you can change indirectly that come from free will. This is by far the single most important mechanic in the game and it will become clearer as the game continues that this is something Gamma never came to terms with*After this conversation the man indeed dies, you are horrified, check for a pulse, freak out a little but compose yourself as the room audio comes on and informs you that the airlock will close in five minutes and decompress, and would kill you (I'm going to start foreshadowing in scene notes for my own purposes as much as anyone who might collaborate. Gamma has set that up on purpose, your dread is because Gamma is your closest friend but he has wiped your memory. He needs you to get going. There is no good reason the airlock needs to close in five minutes).**If you try and leave the room without the portable machine you can't, so you equip it, and then you can leave. - I've been playing some visual novel games lately that talk about time and the ones I like never use time as an actual limit, something I've always hated. Time is crucial to this game, but only the concept, not the actual passage. There are no time limits or counters on anything, there are certainly complexities to gameplay elements but they will be more about setting and resetting the flow of time rather than running against the clock. You have infinite time to solve things and therefore get more familiar and crafty as the game takes shape.*You walk from the airlock to the main lab...Once you pass in to the main lab the only ways that this version of Gamma communicates with you anymore are through cue-cards, through Damus and occasionally through audio tapes (a few other cute ways will come up along the way, maybe in the form of puzzles, like books or lights or encoded messages)Therefore, once you enter the main lab, a massive room filled with all sorts of science equipment, beakers, animals, machines etc... there are also breadcrumbs and notecards along the way to inform you of what you have to doAt various points, the notes on the floor are the right way around and some are mirroredThe notes are all from Gamma who advises that to navigate backwards once you've reached the end you need to plan in advanceThe portable allows you to move in a linear fashion backwards in time but without the machine you can't change anything other than your own route backGamma explains on the cue-cards that you must ensure that the path back exists before you move forwards. He provides you a gun that can slot in to a machine that will pull the trigger on a timer, shooting a lockGamma also uses this time to explain that even your own actions can't be changed in this configuration, via notesNext you encounter a weight sensor that opens a door, but the weight required on one side is substantially more than the other as this is a paddockYou pick up a computer disk similar to the one with which you started after entering in a pin number. Rather than provide it to you, Gamma asks you to look inside yourself to find the number. This begins a story section where you focus your mind after becoming frustrated at your inability to move forwards and you can sense the numbers coming to you. You need to let your finger hover and if it is shaking near the correct button then it is correct. The passcode is 4210The safe opens and a keycard and disk comes out of the slotYou use the keycard on the door and the disk on the Nostra terminalThere is a note before you reach the terminal where Gamma explains that in fact you can't change your own actions in the past at all as it creates a calamity, a universe wide paradox that destroys spacetimeYou reach a computer terminal. You insert the floppy disk drive and then the disk you had at the startGamma's note at the earlier machine instructs you to use the disk you unlocked and swipe the keycard, but the disk only accesses the partition that reaches the calamity. He explains that although this might sound crazy, there is no option to avoid the fixed point and any attempt to thwart it from occurring will likely cause itCausality and freewill are explored here, and a theme emerges that although you cannot change the future or the past your actions in any given moment go a long ways to shaping bothYou execute the code and experience the calamity, briefly. I don't know what that looks or sounds like just yet but it will be something meaningful, likely involving Delilah and any abstract notion of afterlifeYou press the button on the portable despite not having been explained how it works and get a few vague memories: the ocean, prison life, the smell of fresh grassTime begins to move backwards. The notes are now flipped and provide mostly exposition, how next you will have to do unpleasant things, but that's what it takes to save the UniverseThe gun will go off at the same location, the horse has moved to trigger the gate opening and back at the first room, you can equip the machine which opens the left door and allows you to move onAs Gamma advised earlier, you only get there in time to see him die again. After that everything is still until you pick up the DamusWhen you do, tapping the portable against the front without knowing that you needed to for any sensible reason, time moves forwards as advised by GammaGamma remains dead on the ground but now the airlock opens on the left side stating that decompression is complete and welcome to Odyssey, TauranThe name sounds vaguely familiar. You attach the machine to your back (it's the shape and size of a backpack) and keep the portable unit on your wristIf you investigate Gamma there's not a lot you can do but you feel worse each time until you eventually feel sick and the room starts shaking a little. At that stage you have to leave if you haven't alreadyNot a lot else here at this stageThe science bunker is what opens up to the airlock, the airlock clearly opening to the most experimental portion of the facilityThe bunker is full of items that are all covered in cloth, you can remove the cloth and see many exhibitsThe exhibits are labelled. Some are biological and refer to the human race, others to the lizard race, some are artifacts from the conquest, some are artifacts from the banned time programThe time program details are scattered around and a number of electronic pamphlets will describe some of the time program, how it was shut down and how it lead to capture and imprisonment# ODYSSIAN CASTLE - MAIN LABAs you enter the room you take in your surroundings and where you can move to next you see a security door